## 1. Prerequisites
### 1.1 **Ubuntu** and **ROS**
**Ubuntu >= 16.04**

For **Ubuntu 18.04 or higher**, the **default** PCL and Eigen is enough for FAST-LIO to work normally.

ROS    >= Melodic. [ROS Installation](http://wiki.ros.org/ROS/Installation)

目前使用的环境是：Ubuntu 20.04 + ROS noetic

### 1.2. **PCL && Eigen**
PCL    >= 1.8,   Follow [PCL Installation](http://www.pointclouds.org/downloads/linux.html).

**PCL安装命令：**`sudo apt install libpcl-dev`

Eigen  >= 3.3.4, Follow [Eigen Installation](http://eigen.tuxfamily.org/index.php?title=Main_Page).

**eigen安装步骤：**

```
sudo apt-get install libeigen3-dev
sudo cp -r /usr/local/include/eigen3/Eigen /usr/local/include
```



### 1.3. **livox_ros_driver**

**安装livox_ros_driver前先按官方步骤安装[Livox-SDK](https://github.com/Livox-SDK/Livox-SDK)**

安装在 “工作空间/src”下，与FAST_LIO在同一src下。

Follow [livox_ros_driver Installation](https://github.com/Livox-SDK/livox_ros_driver).

*Remarks:*
- Since the FAST-LIO must support Livox serials LiDAR firstly, so the **livox_ros_driver** must be installed and **sourced** before run any FAST-LIO luanch file.
- How to source? The easiest way is add the line ``` source $Licox_ros_driver_dir$/devel/setup.bash ``` to the end of file ``` ~/.bashrc ```, where ``` $Licox_ros_driver_dir$ ``` is the directory of the livox ros driver workspace (should be the ``` ws_livox ``` directory if you completely followed the livox official document).


## 2. Build
和**livox_ros_driver**在同一个src下。

Clone the repository and catkin_make:

```
    cd ~/$A_ROS_DIR$/src
    git clone https://github.com/hku-mars/FAST_LIO.git
    cd FAST_LIO
    git submodule update --init
    cd ../..
    catkin_make
    source devel/setup.bash
```
- Remember to source the livox_ros_driver before build (follow 1.3 **livox_ros_driver**)
- If you want to use a custom build of PCL, add the following line to ~/.bashrc
```export PCL_ROOT={CUSTOM_PCL_PATH}```
## 3. Directly run
### 3.1 For Velodyne or Ouster (Velodyne as an example)

Step A: Setup before run

Edit ``` config/velodyne.yaml ``` to set the below parameters:

1. LiDAR point cloud topic name: ``` lid_topic ```
2. IMU topic name: ``` imu_topic ``` (both internal and external, 6-aixes or 9-axies are fine)
3. Line number (we tested 16, 32 and 64 line, but not tested 128 or above): ``` scan_line ```
4. Translational extrinsic: ``` extrinsic_T ```
5. Rotational extrinsic: ``` extrinsic_R ``` (only support rotation matrix)
- ==The extrinsic parameters in FAST-LIO is defined as the LiDAR's pose (position and rotation matrix) in IMU body frame (i.e. the IMU is the base frame).==

Step B: Run below
```
    cd ~/$FAST_LIO_ROS_DIR$
    source devel/setup.bash
    roslaunch fast_lio mapping_velodyne.launch
```

Step C: Run LiDAR's ros driver or play rosbag.

### 3.2 PCD file save

Set ``` pcd_save_enable ``` in launchfile to ``` 1 ```. All the scans (in global frame) will be accumulated and saved to the file ``` FAST_LIO/PCD/scans.pcd ``` after the FAST-LIO is terminated. ```pcl_viewer scans.pcd``` can visualize the point clouds.

*Tips for pcl_viewer:*

- change what to visualize/color by pressing keyboard 1,2,3,4,5 when pcl_viewer is running. 
```
    1 is all random
    2 is X values
    3 is Y values
    4 is Z values
    5 is intensity
```
